# adaptive-cruise-control-with-automobile-black-box
The proposed system aims to achieve accident analysis by objectively tracking what occurs in vehicles. The system also involves enhancement of security by preventing tampering of the Black Box data. In addition, the Black Box sends an alert message to a pre-stored mobile number via Short Message Service (SMS) in the case of occurrence of an accident.  The proposed system makes use of 5 sensors to record the various driving data parameters. Arduino controller is used to regulate these sensors. The data received from the sensors are stored onto the thingspeak server over ESP8266 for data retrieval anywhere and at anytime. The system uses Global Positioning System (GPS) to collect location data.      Apart from the accident analysis by objectively tracking what occurs in vehicles, the proposed system sends short message indicating the position of vehicle by GPS system to family member, Emergency medical service (EMS) and nearest hospital so that first aid can be provided as early as possible.       It may also adapt speed “Adaptive cruise control” (ACC; also called autonomous cruise control, radar cruise control, traffic-aware cruise control or dynamic radar cruise control) is an optional cruise control system for road vehicles  that automatically adjusts the vehicle speed to maintain a safe distance from vehicles ahead).        Control is based on sensor information from on-board sensors. In our project we have made use of ultrasonic sensors. It detects the distance of object ahead and calculate its velocity and will try to maintain the set speed and set distance in correspondence with the car ahead.
